# The joy of developer relations

When I joined Gnip as their first developer advocate, I had only recently wrapped my head around that there were such positions out there. I had been heads down for the previous 13 years developing flood-warning software and helping a company from from 4 to 25 colleagues. In 2012, I made the leap from early-warning software development to become an advocate for a set of enterprise endpoints used to integrate Twitter Tweet data. As an engineer, What the hell was I thinking?  

Luckily, Gnip was an amazing place to be, with an incredible group of fun, creative, and smart people. At the start, there were two of us on the developer relations team. And the comapny was adding new customers at a rapid rate. We were scrambling to help our partners with their integrations, had a ton of new things to document and explain, and had a growing set of partners to go deep with on the technical level. It took several years to grow our team and have more space to do a wider variety of developer advocacy activities. Like more and more talks and presentations, helping host meet-ups, attending tech conferences (including SxSW), building more demos, and writing more blog posts. During my last year at Twitter I had the chance to go deep with several third-party developers who were interested in the version 2.0 of the Direct Message endpoints. My mission was to keep them up-to-date with endpoint design and features, and listen to their feedback to share with Twitter Product and Engineering teams. To go from that level of collaboration to kicking them off the platform in less than 3 months has been surreal.  

In my experience, developer advocacy is an amazing mix of helping both the technical and non-technical understand amazingly cool things. These roles demand that you understand the things you are advocating for on a very technical level. Every developer advocacy position should provide the time and space to stay technical, by writing code and testing products and features. 

I enjoy the mix of writing, coding, communication, and always learning. 
